Allows to use realtime subscriptions in plugins (#1645)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/plugins/guides/events/kuzzle-state/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: kuzzle:state
---

# kuzzle:state

<SinceBadge version="change-me" />

> These events allows to hooks on Kuzzle startup sequence. They follow [Kubernetes probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/).

Reviewer: These states names are pretty much standard and used by a lot of systems. 

```suggestion
These events allow to hook on Kuzzle startup sequence. 
```

# kuzzle:state:start

> This event is triggered when Kuzzle begin it's startup sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event is triggered when Kuzzle begins its startup sequence.
```

# kuzzle:state:live

> This event is triggered when Kuzzle has loaded every internal components but it's not accepting incoming requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event is triggered when Kuzzle has loaded every internal components but is not yet accepting user requests.
```
